## Setting up the Structure of Application

Tasks:
- Making it thread-safe
- Using defer to simplify the code
- A factory for URLStore
- Using our URLStore

When our application is running in production, it will receive many requests with short URLs, and several requests to turn a long URL into a short one.

First let's look at the code. To store our data in memory, we use a map structure, a `map[string]string`. In any non-trivial program, it is useful to give the special types that you use a name. In Go, we do this with the keyword type, so we define a: `type URLStore map[string]string` . It maps short URLs to long URLs; both are strings.

### Making it thread-safe

Our URLStore variable is the central memory data store here. Once we get some traffic, there will be many requests of type Redirect . These are read operations, read with the given short URL as key, and they return the long URL as value. However, requests of type Add are different; they change our URLStore, adding new key-value pairs. When our service gets many update type-requests at once, the following problem could arise: the add operation could be interrupted by another request of the same type, and the long URL would perhaps not be written as value. Also, there could be modifications together with reads, possibly resulting in having the wrong values read. Our map does not guarantee that once an update starts, it will terminate completely before a new update begins. In other words: a map is not thread-safe, and goto will serve many requests concurrently. Therefore, we must make our URLStore type-safe to access from separate threads.

The simplest and classical way to do this is to add a lock to updating operations. In Go, this is a Mutex type from the sync package in the standard library, which we now must import into our code. We change the type definition of our URLStore to a struct type with two fields: the map and an RWMutex from the sync package:
```go
import "sync"

type URLStore struct {
  urls map[string]string // map from short to long URLs
  mu sync.RWMutex
}
```

An RWMutex has two locks: one for readers and one for writers. Many clients can take the read lock simultaneously, but only one client can take the write lock (to the exclusion of all readers), effectively serializing the updates and making them take place consecutively. We will implement our read request type Redirect in a Get function, and our write request type Add as a Set function. The Get function looks like this:
```go
func (s *URLStore) Get(key string) string {
  s.mu.RLock()
  url := s.urls[key]
  s.mu.RUnlock()
  return url 
}
```

It takes a key (short URL) and returns the corresponding map value as a URL. The function works on a variable s , which is a pointer to our
URLStore . But, before reading the value, we set a read-lock with
s.mu.RLock() so that no update can interrupt the read. After the read, we unlock so that pending updates can start. What if the key is not present in the map? Then the zero value for the string type (an empty string) will be returned. Notice the . notation familiar from OO languages: the method RLock() is called on the field mu of s.

The Set function needs both a key and a URL and has to use the write lock Lock() to exclude any other updates at the same time. It returns a boolean true or false value to indicate whether the Set was successful or not:
```go
func (s *URLStore) Set(key, url string) bool {
  s.mu.Lock()
  _, present := s.urls[key]
  if present {
    s.mu.Unlock()
    return false
  }
  s.urls[key] = url
  s.mu.Unlock()
  return true
}
```

With the form `_, present := s.urls[key]` , we can test to see whether our map already contains the key. If so, present becomes true. Otherwise, it is false. This is the so-called comma, ok form, which we frequently encounter in Go code. If the key is already present, Set returns a boolean false value, and the map is not updated because we return from the function (so we don’t allow our short URL’s to be reused). If the key is not present , we add it to the map and return true. The _ on the left side is a placeholder for the value, and it indicates that we are not going to use it because we assign it to _ . Note that as soon as possible (after the update), we Unlock() our URLStore.

### Using defer to simplify the code

In this case, the code is still simple, and it is easy to remember to do the Unlock() . However, in more complex code, this might be forgotten or put in the wrong place, leading to problems that are often difficult to track down. For these kinds of situations, Go has a special keyword defer , which allows, in this case, the Unlock to be signaled immediately after the Lock . However, its effect is that the Unlock() will only be done just before returning from the function.
Get can be simplified to (we have eliminated the local variable URL):
```go
func (s *URLStore) Get(key string) string {
  s.mu.RLock()
  defer s.mu.RUnlock()
  return s.urls[key]
}
```

The logic for Set also becomes somewhat clearer (we don’t need to think about unlocking anymore):
```go
func (s *URLStore) Set(key, url string) bool {
  s.mu.Lock()
  defer s.mu.Unlock()
  _, present := s.urls[key]
  if present {
    return false
  }
  s.urls[key] = url
  return true
}
```

### A factory for URLStore

The URLStore struct contains a map field, which must be initialized with make before it can be used. Making the value of a struct is done in Go by defining a function with the prefix New, that returns an initialized value of the type (here, and in most cases, a pointer to it):
```go
func NewURLStore() *URLStore {
  return &URLStore{ urls: make(map[string]string) }
}
```

In return, we make a URLStore literal with our map initialized. The lock doesn’t need to be specifically initialized; this is the standard way in Go of making struct objects. & is the address-of operator, to return a pointer because NewURLStore returns the pointer *URLStore . We call this function to make a URLStore variable store:
```go
var store = NewURLStore()
```

### Using our URLStore

To add a new short/long URL pair to our map, all we have to do is call the Set method on s , and since this is a boolean, we can immediately wrap it in an if-statement:
```go
if s.Set("a", "http://google.com") {
  // success
}
```

To retrieve the long URL given a short URL, we call the Get method on s and put the result in a variable url :
```go
if url := s.Get("a"); url != "" {
  // redirect to url
} else {
  // key not found
}
```

Here, we make use of the fact that, in Go, an if can start with an initializing statement before the condition.

We may also need a method Count to give us the number of key-value pairs in the map; this is given by the built-in len function:
```go
 func (s *URLStore) Count() int {
  s.mu.RLock()
  defer s.mu.RUnlock()
  return len(s.urls)
}
```

How we compute the short URL given the long URL? For this, we use a function `genKey(n int) string {...}`; as an argument, we pass it the current value of s.Count().

The exact algorithm is of little importance. We can now make a Put method that takes a long URL, generates its short key with genKey , stores the URL under this (short URL) key with the Set method, and returns that key:
```go
func (s *URLStore) Put(url string) string {
  for {
    key := genKey(s.Count())
    if s.Set(key, url) {
      return key
    }
  }
}
```

The for loop retries the Set until it is successful (meaning that we have generated a not yet existing short URL).
