## Persistent Storage with gob

Tasks:
- Add persistence

When the goto process (the web-server on a port) ends, and this has to happen sooner or later, the map with the shortened URLs in memory will be lost. To preserve our map data, we need to save them to a disk file. We will modify URLStore so that it writes its data to a file, and restores that data on goto start-up. For this, we will use Go’s `encoding/gob` package, which is a serialization and deserialization package that turns data structures into arrays (or more accurately slices) of bytes and vice versa.

### Add persistence

With the gob package’s NewEncoder and NewDecoder functions, you can decide where you write the data to or read it from. The resulting Encoder and Decoder objects provide Encode and Decode methods for writing and reading Go data structures to and from files. Encoder also implements the Writer interface, and so does Decoder for the Reader interface.

We will add a new file field (of type *os.File ) to URLStore that will be a handle to an open file that can be used for writing and reading:
```go 
type URLStore struct {
  urls map[string]string
  mu sync.RWMutex
  file *os.File
}
```

We will call this file store.gob and give that name as a parameter when we instantiate the URLStore:
```go
var store = NewURLStore("store.gob")
```

Now, we have to adapt our NewURLStore function:
```go
func NewURLStore(filename string) *URLStore {
  s := &URLStore{urls: make(map[string]string)}
  f, err := os.OpenFile(filename, os.O_RDWR|os.O_CREATE|os.O_APPEND, 0644)
  if err != nil {
    log.Fatal("URLStore:", err)
  }
  s.file = f
  return s
}
```

The NewURLStore function now takes a filename argument, opens the file, and stores the *os.File value in the file field of our URLStore variable store, here, locally called s . The call to OpenFile can fail (our disk file could be removed or renamed for example). It can return an error err ; notice how Go handles this:
```go
f, err := os.OpenFile(filename, os.O_RDWR|os.O_CREATE|os.O_APPEND, 0644)
if err != nil {
  log.Fatal("URLStore:", err)
}
```

When err is not nil, meaning there was an error, we stop the program with a message. This is one way of doing it: mostly the error is returned to the calling function. However, this pattern of testing errors is ubiquitous in Go code. After the }, we are certain the file is opened. We open this file with writing enabled, more exactly in append-mode. Each time a new (short, long) URL pair is made in our program, we will store it through gob in the file store gob For that purpose we define a new struct type in the file store.gob. For that purpose, we define a new struct type record:
```go
type record struct {
  Key, URL string
}
```

and a new save method that writes a given key and URL to disk as a gob- encoded record:
```go
func (s *URLStore) save(key, url string) error {
  e := gob.NewEncoder(s.file)
  return e.Encode(record{key, url})
}
```

At the start of goto , our datastore on disk must be read into the URLStore map; for this, we have a load method:
```go
func (s *URLStore) load() error {
  if _, err := s.file.Seek(0, 0); err != nil {
    return err 
  }
  d := gob.NewDecoder(s.file)
  var err error
  for err == nil {
    var r record
    if err = d.Decode(&r); err == nil {
      s.Set(r.Key, r.URL)
    }
  }
  if err == io.EOF {
    return nil
  }
  return err
}
```

The new load method will seek to the beginning of the file, read and decode each record, and store the data in the map using the Set method. Again, notice the all-pervasive error-handling. The decoding of the file is an infinite loop which continues as long as there is no error:
```go
for err == nil {
  ...
}
```

If we get an error, it could be because we have just decoded the last record and the error io.EOF (EndOfFile) occurs. If this is not the case, we have an error while decoding, and this is returned with the return err . This method must be added to NewURLStore:
```go
func NewURLStore(filename string) *URLStore {
  s := &URLStore{urls: make(map[string]string)}
  f, err := os.OpenFile(filename, os.O_RDWR|os.O_CREATE|os.O_APPEND, 0644)
  if err != nil {
    log.Fatal("Error opening URLStore:", err)
  }
  s.file = f
  if err := s.load(); err != nil {
    log.Println("Error loading data in URLStore:", err)
  }
  return s
}
```

Also in the Put function, when we add a new url-pair to our map, this should also be saved immediately to the datafile:
```go
func (s *URLStore) Put(url string) string {
  for {
    key := genKey(s.Count())
    if s.Set(key, url) {
      if err := s.save(key, url); err != nil {
        log.Println("Error saving to URLStore:", err)
      }
      return key
    }
  }
}
```
