## Using goroutines for Performance

Tasks:
- Add goroutines and channels
- Flags for user’s interaction

There is still a performance problem with the 2nd version if too many clients attempt to add URLs simultaneously. Our map is safely updated for concurrent access thanks to the locking mechanism, but the immediate writing of each new record to disk is a bottleneck. The disk writes may happen simultaneously, and depending on the characteristics of your OS, this may cause corruption. Even if the writes do not collide, each client must wait for their data to be written to disk before their Put function will return. Therefore, on a heavily I/O-loaded system, clients will wait longer than necessary for their Add requests to go through. To remedy these issues, we must decouple the Put and save processes; we do this by using Go’s concurrency mechanism. Instead of saving records directly to disk, we send them to a channel, which is a kind of buffer, so the sending function doesn’t have to wait for it.

### Add goroutines and channels

The save process, writes to disk reads from that channel and is started on a separate thread by launching it as a goroutine called saveloop. The main program and saveloop are now executed concurrently, so there is no more blocking. We replace the file field in URLStore by a channel of records:
```go
type URLStore struct {
  urls map[string]string
  mu sync.RWMutex
  save chan record
}
```

A channel, just like a map, must be made with make ; we will do this in our changed factory NewURLStore and give it a buffer length of 1000, like:
```go
save := make(chan record, saveQueueLength)
```

To remedy our performance situation instead of making a function call to save each record to disk, Put can send a record to our buffered channel save:
```go
func (s *URLStore) Put(url string) string {
  for {
    key := genKey(s.Count())
    if s.Set(key, url) {
      s.save <- record{key, url}
      return key
    }
  }
}
```

At the other end of the save channel, we must have a receive. Our new method saveLoop will run in a separate goroutine; it receives record values and writes them to a file. The saveLoop is also started in the
NewURLStore() function with the keyword go , and we can remove the now-unnecessary file opening code. Here is the modified NewURLStore():
```go
const saveQueueLength = 1000
func NewURLStore(filename string) *URLStore {
  s := &URLStore{
    urls: make(map[string]string),
    save: make(chan record, saveQueueLength),
  }
  if err := s.load(filename); err != nil {
    log.Println("Error loading URLStore:", err)
  }
  go s.saveLoop(filename)
  return s
}
```

Here is the code for the method saveloop:
```go
func (s *URLStore) saveLoop(filename string) {
  f, err := os.Open(filename, os.O_WRONLY|os.O_CREATE|os.O_APPEND, 0644)
  if err != nil {
    log.Fatal("URLStore:", err)
  }
  defer f.Close()
  e := gob.NewEncoder(f)
  for {
    r := <-s.save // taking a record from the channel and encoding it
    if err := e.Encode(r); err != nil {
      log.Println("URLStore:", err)
    }
  }
}
```

Records are read from the save channel in an infinite loop and encoded to the file. Here we have seen a useful example for better managing the different parts of a program. Notice also that now we only make our Encoder object once.

### Flags for user’s interaction

Another improvement can be introduced to make goto more flexible. Instead of coding the filename, the listener address and the hostname hard-coded, or as constants in the program, we can define them as flags. That way, they can be given new values if they are typed in on the command line when starting the program. If this is not done, the default value from the flag will be taken. This functionality comes from a different package, so we have to: `import "flag"`.

We first create some global variables to hold the flag values:
```go
var (
  listenAddr = flag.String("http", ":3000", "http listen address")
  dataFile = flag.String("file", "store.gob", "data store file name")
  hostname = flag.String("host", "localhost:3000", "host name and port")
)
```

For processing command-line parameters, we must add flag.Parse() to the main function, and instantiate the URLStore after the flags have been parsed, once we know the value of dataFile (in the code *dataFile is used. This is because a flag is a pointer and must be dereferenced to get the value):
```go 
var store *URLStore
func main() {
  flag.Parse()
  fmt.Println("Server listening at", hostname)
  store = NewURLStore(*dataFile)
  http.HandleFunc("/", Redirect)
  http.HandleFunc("/add", Add)
  http.ListenAndServe(*listenAddr, nil)
}
```
